[Music]
I'm fascinated by the dream world we
live in our dreaming asleep dreaming and
that moment of pre-sleep when the
subconscious mind whirls up and i might
own personal feeling is that and this is
beyond religion or spirituality is that
this is all an illusion Maya because my
life has been such sitting here tonight
40 years ago I wants to come to the
Actors Studio none of it makes any
logical left brain sense to me
they've been books written about a
younger or over that there's something
in us that we deeply understand deep in
our nature deeper than anything we can
even begin to comprehend and that
certain moments in our life we get
little signals little flashes I had one
moment when I decided to change my life
taking fashion that says it's yours if
you want it and I don't know how that
happens but it's happened to me so
that's what I've tried to put into this
movie about the dream like nature of
life
[Music]
what do you think happens I don't know I
think there's a superior consciousness
in all of us that we touch into
sometimes I don't know if I believe in
anything I mean I've dated but I believe
whatever that thing is to be talked
about the centuries I think it's just
within us I mean things of Abram
remarkable things have happened in my
life by by just wishing or asking for
something for a bit of healthy as I can
and I don't believe I'm not a I'm an
agnostic I guess is it anybody can help
me or whatever and there's something
inside us that will respond I believe I
believe that we have to make our lives
because life is stuff I have to believe
in the power of life my life in this
acting game has just been one long
drawn-out surprised I'm surprised that
I'm still here example when I was a
little kid starting off in the YMCA poor
tall but having no idea what I was going
to do because I didn't know what else to
do
sure beats working for a living but I
used to jump on the back of those
double-decker buses and hold onto the
white pole I never wanted to go inside I
said love swinging on the thing you know
the wind in my face
that's been a metaphor for my life in
this business there is no shortcut to
happiness
you have to live your life if it hits
you fine but it's a morality tale when I
wanted was younger I wanted to be famous
it all happened and it doesn't feel any
different it's very pleasant and but I
don't take it seriously I take it over
the little grain of salt we all sell
ourselves to some degree and I was told
I sold my soul for Hollywood well maybe
that's do it I've been told that I sold
out the success doesn't necessarily
bring you unhappiness it can bring you a
lot of happiness it's relatively depends
how you handle it and that when you're
younger it's harder to handle and as
I've been around for some years I think
I've got a fairly good balance but maybe
that's pride talking but I I feel fairly
balanced I've been around the city block
a few times and you mellow out and you
just don't take things too seriously do
something new you know you got to make
you've gotta can't stay in your comfort
zone that's what we all do we get to a
certain age we'll still has comfort zone
with the recliners watching television
day in the day and we get a certain
agent movie sent at the end of the arrow
I sit around watching television for the
rest of my life because I've done it all
sitting on my laurels it breathes it's
not worth it I mean life's so short and
such glorious images in the world and
such horror as well but I want to see it
all so I've moved out of my comfort zone
it's some essential for me otherwise I
may as well die so I've done it ever
I've broken every rule in the book and
not out of malice or any telling anyone
that I'll show you I did it for to show
myself I've showed myself I looked into
Maratha I'll show you one day I've done
something completely new I wrote the
music and I feel limitless you know
anything with faith is you can move
mountains and trust and let go and all
that's something you know how nice to
just throw myself into a tendon there
when the negatives came to my mind there
were the positive sounds in my head you
know I'd say I can't do it you and I I
used to meditate and visualize myself
doing it nice to visualize myself on
like a kind of try and visualize myself
doing those sort of signing cards and
spinning them and then gradually
surprising the power of mind what
happens you know your muscles begin to
respond it's like anything they may feel
playing the piano or driving the car
comes through relaxation and not to take
life on its face value that it's all a
mystery and it's an illusion and that
everything is random and there are no
guarantees and also I don't know what to
take there's no message in it I'm not
meant to miss it's also I know people
are getting a strange intuitive feeling
about the nature of it because the totem
of subconscious mind the nature of
memory and dreams the whole thing is
dream everything in this is a dream and
I'm not sure what the reality is but
when you look at our own lives I mean we
don't know if there's any we don't know
what we have 'ti is we don't know what
life is we don't know what time is we
could be dreaming in this at this moment
we don't know that's how asleep the
human race is so our whole history has
been one of a slumber and sometimes it
takes a little bit of I wanted to break
people up a little just pull the rug say
oh this is a movie now is it they go
what in your 79 plus years on this
planet what do you what is there a bit
of wisdom that you can share with us
that it may be something we wouldn't
know because we've overlooked it or
something that you're really among above
all else you think you've learned that
you can share with us let's keep going
keep going never give up I think that's
really good advice here
[Applause]
you know figures we get questions in our
head and little voices that put a stone
when we were kids and all that so I get
over that that's where I've had to do is
get over the you know whatever trouble
didn't just I kind of photograph of
myself in my phone when I was a little
boy and I was little confused kid as we
all were now look at us we did okay kid
[Laughter]
[Applause]
I like that life is tough but you just
got to get out of bed get on and do it
my grandfather always carried his own
luggage and all of our luggage oh and
we're always like what are you doing put
that down but and now I realize like
that's what it is right but you're gonna
kept going yeah got to do it