[Music]
let's suppose that you were able every
night to dream any dream you wanted to
dream and that you could for example
have the power within one night to dream
75 years of time or any length of time
you wanted to have and you would
naturally as you began on this adventure
of Dreams you would fulfill all your
wishes you would have every kind of
pleasure
Luzi and after several nights of 75
years of total pleasure each you would
say well I was pretty great but now
let's um let's have a surprise let's
have a dream which isn't under control
where something is going to happen to me
that I don't know what its gonna be and
you you would dig that and come out of
that and say wow that was a close shave
wasn't it and then you would get more
and more adventurous and you would make
further and further out Gamble's as to
what you would dream and finally you
would dream where you are now you would
dream the dream of living the life that
you were actually living today that
would be within the infinite
multiplicity of choices you would have
of playing that you weren't God
so then this means that you're not
victims of a scheme of things of a
mechanical world or of an autocratic god
the life you're living is what you put
yourself only you don't admit it because
you want to play the game that it's
happened to you
as if you play life on the supposition
that you're a helpless little puppet
that got involved or if you played on
the supposition that it's a frightful
serious risk and that we really ought to
do something about it and so on it's a
drag there's no point in going on living
unless we make the assumption that the
situation of life is optimal and it
makes you realize you see how great
things are so in this idea then
everybody is fundamentally the ultimate
reality not God in a politically kingly
sense but God in the sense of being the
self the deep down basic whatever there
is and you're all that only you're
pretending you're not