but the one thing people tend to realize
at moments like this is that they wasted
a lot of time when life was normal
it's not just what they it's not just
what they did with their time it's not
just that they spent too much time
working or compulsively checking email
this is the thing they cared about the
wrong things they regret what they cared
about their attention was bound up in
petty concerns a year after year when
life was normal
and this is a paradox of course because
we all know this epiphany is coming
maybe don't you know this is coming
don't you know that there's going to
come a day when you'll be sick or
someone close to you will die and you'll
look back on the kinds of things that
captured your attention
because it even if you live to be a
hundred there's just not that many days
in life okay it is always now
however much you feel you may need to
plan for the future to anticipate it to
mitigate risks the reality of your life
is now our conscious awareness at the
present moment is in some relevant sense
already a memory
but as a matter of conscious experience
the reality of your life is always now
and I think this is a liberating truth
about the nature of the human mind in
fact I think there's probably nothing
more important to understand about your
mind than that if you want to be happy
in this world but the past is a memory
it's a thought arising in the present
that the future is merely anticipated it
is another thought arising now
you know what we truly have
is this moment
and we spent most of our lives
forgetting this truth repudiating it
fleeing it overlooking it and and the
the horror is that we succeed we managed
to never really connect with the present
moment and find fulfillment there
because we are we are continually hoping
to become happy in the future
and the future never arrives
even when we think we're in the present
moment where or in very subtle ways
always looking over its shoulder
anticipating what's coming next
we are always solving a problem and it's
possible to simply drop your problem if
only for a moment and enjoy whatever is
true of your life in the present there
are more connections in a single cubic
centimeter of brain tissue than stars in
our galaxy and yet our inner experience
offers absolutely no clue
we are subjectively unaware most of what
our minds are doing
and yet when we think about what what
matters what matters is consciousness
and its contents it consciousness is
everything our experience of the world
the experience of those we care about is
a matter of consciousness and its
contents
so so whatever the origins of
consciousness
but the most important question for us
is how can we truly be fulfilled in life
how can we create lives that are truly
worth living given that these lives so
the frame we put around the present
moment is important and largely
determines our experience of it but it
seems possible in fact to experience
life more naked ly than this to
experience it without an obvious friend
to pay attention to the present moment
closely enough so that you're not doing
anything to it
now you might feel that your
consciousness is in your head or behind
your face but as a matter of experience
it's just more sensations arising in
consciousness that the only evidence of
your face and head is an essence ation
arise in consciousness at this moment
but whatever you can possibly notice in
your body and your mind in the world has
only one place to appear in your
conscious experience now I'm not saying
this is all just a dream but as a
neurological matter it is very much like
a dream it is a dream that is
constrained by inputs from the external
world and the dreams we call dreams at
night or dreams that are not constrained
by the external world which in you your
mind is all you have
it's all you've ever had as all you have
to offer other people we are all trying
to find a path back to the present
moment and good enough reason to just be
happier if you're constantly ruminating
about what you just did or what you
should have done or what you would have
done if you if you only have the chance
you will miss your life hey you'll fail
to connect with it you'll fail to
connect with other people if it being
the mere hostage of the next thought
that comes careening into consciousness
isn't useful
so there if there's an antidote to the
fear of death and the experience clause
it's compatible with reason I think it's
to be found here good the purpose of
life is pretty obvious we are we are
constantly the way why do we create
culture and form relationships the
beyond matters of mere survival we're
constantly trying to create and repair a
world that our minds want to be