all right and welcome back oh thanks for
having me Mark it's really great to be
here great to see you again I was
thinking of doing something different
this time I'm going to throw some quotes
at you some of them well-known quotes
from famous people just to start a
conversation and see where see where it
leads us sounds fun I'll do my best so
the first quote is from maranne
Williamson of the course of Miracles
books maturity includes the recognition
that no one is going to see anything in
us that we don't see in
ourselves I think there's some truth to
that I am edging away from it given the
superlative
anything I think it's certainly possible
that people can see things in us that we
haven't yet discovered in ourselves in
fact that's part of what makes
relationships important we learn about
ourselves in relation to others this
starts from the very earliest age in the
Rapport between an infant and the mother
like the infant doesn't even know that
it is biologically or psychologically
separate from the mother until maybe 12
or 15 months we learn about ourselves in
relationship to others because different
people organically pull different parts
of ourselves to the Forefront while
other parts of us reced into the
background that's why we tend to be
different people around different people
it isn't because we're lying necessarily
though some people can lie it's not
because we're playacting or trying to be
that way it's just people naturally some
people make us feel calm some people
make us feel on edge some people make us
feel playful and it's through that
Dynamic that we discover those aspects
of ourselves so I do think that it's
possible for other people to reveal
parts of ourselves that we haven't yet
fully appreciated that said I think the
core of what she's saying is is true
which is you shouldn't really be
surprised
by an observation another person makes
about you especially a negative
observation and I think this speaks to
the importance of doing what you might
call Shadow work Shadow work is the
process of looking Inward and
appreciating that there might be
irrevocable Darkness inside of
you that all human beings are capable
under certain circumstances
of all kinds of different
things I've learned a lot about this in
doing therapy like it's I can't remember
a time in over a decade where I've sat
down with somebody and they've told me
about something that they've gone
through and I couldn't say I know what
that feels
like and that's difficult because people
are subject to all kinds of negative
emotions and all kinds of destructive
behaviors
but I think what happens when people
don't look Inward and accept that there
is at least that
capacity for evil or Darkness inside of
them even if it's not being actualized
as long as if they don't see that
capacity they're subject to denying it
and disavowing it which doesn't actually
eliminate that Darkness it's more likely
to come up it's more likely to come up
under the guise of identification
others in so much as those disavowed
aspects of self don't really get
integrated into the personality that's
only possible through the acceptance and
the processing and the shadow work what
they do is they tend to get projected
into other people or onto other people
and then the folks who haven't fully
integrated and accepted themselves then
seek to eradicate their own projected
darkness by trying to destroy the object
onto which that Darkness was projected
and that's ultimately the source of
The Lion Share of unnecessary suffering
on this planet is people trying to purge
the world of their own projected
darkness and it's easy to say what the
solution is well the solution is to look
Inward and say
well you know he who out without sin
casts the first stone kind of a thing
like are you really that pure are you
really that good are you really that
righteous and to deeply accept with
humility your own limitations and
propensities for darkness and that
actually keeps you safe it's the people
who don't think that they can do any
harm or can do any wrong that are often
so convicted into the righteousness of
their own perspectives that they create
a lot of a lot of suffering for others
in the world so that's what I got for
that quote that's
good this is a quote by Joseph Campbell
I don't believe people are looking for
the meaning of life as much as they are
looking for the experience of being
alive I wonder if they're the
same so when I was younger I was very
much obsessed with finding the meaning
of life as if it was something concrete
and objective that was hidden out in the
world and it was for me the sincere
Seeker to go out and find it like an
adventurer trying to discover a lost
continent or something like that one of
the things I learned about that
is that seeking propensity took me all
over the world and brought me into
contact with many different kinds of
people from many different cultures and
I had a plethora of different
experiences and I still never found the
meaning of life one of the things that I
discovered is that when you're
seeking you're
seeking that is to say when you're
seeking you're not finding when you're
seeking you're seeking when you're
finding you're finding on some level
Perpetual Seekers are like hopeless
Romantics they're playing this game of
hide-and-seek with themselves on some
level or let's say an aspect of their
own disavowed
Divinity they're taking that and they're
hiding it out into the world and that
actually invests the world with this
sort of romantic sense of adventure like
there's some real positive good out
there that exists that it's just waiting
to be found and it's findable and I
could potentially find it which creates
this sort of passionate
intensity even if it's full of suffering
and struggle and delayed
gratification that game of hide-and seek
can invest life with more meaning and
that's why a lot of people do it but
ultimately again if you're seeking
you're seeking on at some point I made
the decision to stop seeking and start
finding and what that on some level
means is that
if I kind of approach this from the
perspective of
like if there is a meaning to life it
can't be located in any one particular
place like that wouldn't be fair so many
people would never come to that place
place and so that would suggest that the
meaning of life was just access
inaccessible to the vast majority of
people and it can't be located at a
specific point in time for the same
reason so if there is a meaning to life
it needs to be experienced or
approachable at any given place at any
given time which means I can do it right
here and now so I don't need to start I
I don't need to keep seeking I can start
finding right now right where I'm at and
that was a shift in perspective in my
life
where rather than seeing it as something
that was out there that I was missing it
was something that was right in front of
me that I could come into greater
awareness and direct emotional
experience with does that make
sense now the quote was about the
meaning of life and the experience of
life so I made an episode about this it
was called the meaning of life I think
maybe this is why you're asking me the
question it is I know your channel well
okay so
one way to approach the meaning of life
is that life is sort of like
Disneyland where we all get to go into
the park and have all kinds of different
experiences there are rides and
concessions and lines and there's kind
of no right way to do Disneyland like
the person who decides I'm going to ride
every single ride once like that person
didn't do Disneyland right he didn't win
Disneyland you know what I'm saying the
person who rode the teacups 50 times
that person didn't do it wrong that
person didn't lose Disneyland and the
person who didn't go on any rides at all
for whatever reason or just stood in
line you know that was their experience
of Disneyland and on some level we get
to choose what experiences we have in
the park within certain objective con
rints like maybe some rides are
inoperable the day we go can't do it or
maybe I could ride this ride but it
means I'm going to have to wait in line
for 4 hours which is going to severely
restrict my ability to ride other rides
it's like you have to make those
decisions and it those decisions are
constrained by objective reality of your
circumstances right but at the end of
the
day everyone has their one day in
Disneyland and then we go
home and that's what it was like
if you rode the teacups 50 times then
the meaning of your life was that like
that was your time in the park and we
discover in retrospect the meaning of
our life by examining the choices that
we make as we move through
time I think that's right which
generally means that we can't noodle out
the meaning of Our Lives alone in our
room it's not a cognitive decision it's
a retroactive emotional appreciation for
the decisions that we made and how we
spent our necessarily limited amount of
time
and there's no right or wrong way to
live I know that can sometimes rub
people the wrong way but moral judgments
like right or wrong are only really
appropriate in the context of either an
extrapolated moral ethical framework or
a particular goal
the easiest way to approach that is
which is better the mountains or the
beach well depends on your goals like if
you want to go skiing you should not go
to the beach right that's the wrong
choice but only in the context of that
goal like the mountains have their pros
and cons and the beach have their pros
and cons and at the end of the day if
you go right or you go left you still go
somewhere and that's your life is where
you
go this is one of my favorite quotes
from a professional wrestler named Eddie
Guerrero who has now passed away if
you're not cheating you're not
trying I think it applies to everything
business relationships everything oh
yeah so this will be a tough one
too
um so life is a nested series of games
we're all playing many different games
simultaneously whether we're aware of it
or
not game can sometimes rub people the
wrong way but I Define a game as
anything with a goal and a set of
rules what that means is that every game
is defined by what you can and cannot do
otherwise it's not a game it's just
chaos like anything goes that's not a
game that's
disorder which means that inherently
fouling is a part of every
game a game that can't where fouling is
not possible is a game that has no rules
which is not a game it's chaos right
fing is part of the game
imagine being let's say a a basketball
player and trying to play at the highest
levels without ever committing a
personal
foul it would not be possible it would
not be possible because you would be
inappropriately handicapping yourself in
ways that your competitors were not and
you would have to be so significantly
better than them in terms of your
ability to compensate for that arbitrary
self-handicap and you won't be that
significantly better because at the
highest echelons of performance there
are smaller and smaller margins the
competition is so stiff it's so stiff
the slightest bit of Edge and maybe that
that involves cheating sometimes or
something close to it gives you the edge
well sure it's like you know maybe in a
a foot race the diff distance between
like a Usain Bolt and probably the the
500th fastest man in the world is
probably like a couple tenths of a
second at most so like as you near the
top
spot you it's like approaching the speed
of light you need to do expend more and
more of an effort to actually produce
smaller and smaller gains
and so a person who handicapped
themselves in that way would not be able
to compete at that level they might
compete successfully at a lower level
but not at the highest echelons you're
not going to Beed to Greatness if you're
not pushing the limits of fair and so
the reality is that cheating or let's
say rule
infractions are a calculated
risk and there are certainly times in
games where the the potential penalty
associated with infringing this rule is
offset by the likely projected gain
associated with doing so or the loss
associated with not doing so you can
approach it that
way
excellent the next quote is about risk
this is from Jim ran the uh entrepreneur
and author if you're not willing to risk
the unusual you're going to have to
settle for the ordinary
Well
yeah if you just do what everybody does
you get what everybody has yeah that
makes complete sense to me so that means
in order to be
extraordinary you have to be willing to
deviate often in significant ways
from normative behavior and values which
generally means that you become less
aligned with the people immediately
around
you I made an episode that just came out
about this which is the cost of living
your own life the cost of living your
own life is the acceptance of others you
can't both be
accepted by others and to live your own
best life like the two things are not
possible why because the normative
conventions are like buying clothes off
the rack like they're only going to fit
you to a certain extent if you want a
life that is really built towards your
preferences and talents and skills it
has to be custom
tailored which means that you're going
to have to change or build from the
ground up a completely new fabric for
your
life and
that's very difficult for people to
do it becomes very lonely like
we I think often inappropriately
believe that we could
tolerate social disapproval especially
at the level that it's capable of
attaining in today's day and age there's
this really interesting study that was
done a long time ago it's so
simple like there are no rules about how
you stand on an elevator like there are
no laws about that but everyone stands
the same way so there was a
psychological study that was done a
while ago
where they put like four Confederates in
an elevator and had them face backwards
right and the unknowing participant in
the study who didn't know that this was
what was being studied he thought or she
thought they were on their way to uh the
actual study the elevator opens the
people are facing the back and the
researchers are trying to observe what
the person does in that circumstance and
the vast majority of
people would turn around and face
backwards like there's so many examples
of Conformity research that we know that
it's very hard for a person to deviate
even from a consensus of three or four
individuals it's very very difficult
like there's that old movie 12 Angry Men
did you ever seen that classic courtroom
drama with Henry
Fonda takes place in this one room they
a jury deliberating the sentence or the
verdict of a a youth accused of murder
in the beginning of the movie Fonda is
the only juror who believes the guy
might be not guilty and over the course
of the next two hours he slowly kind of
works to convince the other jurors of
the Reasonable Doubt in the case and
that movie even you know 70 years later
is held out as an example of an
individual who has the strength of
conviction to stand up to the majority
and all he did was stand up to 11
people but that's hard enough now
imagine you live in a
society where you might have to stand up
in front of 11 million people who
disagree with you and also might
disagree with you with anonymity and
impunity which often takes the restraint
off of the views you're talking about
social media all kinds of social media
right like we know that when people are
able to make Anonymous comments they
become more extreme in their language
and in their views because what's the
accountability structure here so if it's
hard if we celebrate the courage and
strength of Henry Fonda standing up to
11 people imagine how much courage and
conviction you have to have to be able
to stand up to 11 million people also in
a day and age where the consequences of
deviating from
the correct opinion at the moment can be
significant you could lose your friends
you can lose your livelihood people are
cancelled
uh
it's it's actually a very concerning
Trend
so but what's the alternative the
alternative is that you seek to fit in
in order to avoid
the risks of standing out and unless you
are a very conventional person and some
people are psychologically very
conventional people and they don't think
there's anything strange or effortful
about conforming because they were like
built that way they're conf they were
built in alignment with conventional
ideologies and structures so they often
can't understand why it's so difficult
for other people who for whatever reason
can't or won't
conform in the way that they
do um but clearly there's also a lot of
problems in our
societies um I think that if our society
on the majority was thriving was
peaceful was prosperous you could make a
better argument for
Conformity but if you live in a society
that might be unstable and polarized and
fractious and
hostile I think Conformity might be part
of the
problem here's another Jim ran quote
don't wish it were easier wish you were
better yeah so many different ways you
can go with this
one it's just having what it takes to
excel to be
excellent to stand out from everyone
else oh yeah I think that's very true
and it's true on I think it's about
courage hard work and
courage well the issue is that we
actually don't want things to be that
easy this is going to sound strange
but this quote actually makes me think
of are is the video game series The
Legend of Zelda you ever played Zelda
Mark never okay I like the video game
series The Legend of Zelda it's one of
these open World adventure games you
play link you got a sword you got to get
the seal the Shields and you go into the
temples and get the items to defeat the
bosses and grow your hearts and save the
princess it's it's a very actually
youngian um Heroes Quest type of video
game it's the arc typal Heroes Quest
video game game and if you go through
the game you eventually get to this
state where you're
functionally unbeatable like you're
unkillable you have so many heart
containers you have all the most
powerful
weapons sometimes even the final boss is
a piece of cake because you're so
overpowered at that point the game is no
longer fun like the game is more
engaging when we could lose it
still when there was a chance that we
might not have enough to
succeed when we didn't yet have that
item that we needed in order to defeat
that particular boss and the fact that
we didn't have it actually gave us the
pretext for the adventure to get
it but now once you have everything and
you're functionally invulnerable and you
can't ever die and there is no reason to
go anywhere else because you have
everything
already well what's the point of the
game at that point you know that's not a
fun game to
play so there has to be kind of
appropriate challenge when the game is
too hard whether it's a video game or
the game of life people are subject to
just rage quitting they might feel like
this is a game that they can't possibly
get enough good at to stand a decent
likelihood of succeeding in okay fair
enough but if it's too easy people don't
bother to play like we want an
appropriate level of Challenge and
ultimately that's kind of what life does
for us organically like life never
really becomes easy if we're playing it
right if life becomes easy it kind of
means that we haven't moved on to the
next Temple we haven't moved on to the
next challenge
we're you
know sometimes this is an ego- based
thing like it can be more satisfying to
stay in a class where you effortlessly
Ace every exam but if that's the case
you're not learning anything anymore
right researchers have discovered that
the optimal hit rate for machine
learning algorithms is
85% which basically means that they want
to put new data in front of a algorithm
and they want that algorithm to get it
right 85% of the time and to make
mistakes 15% of the time because if the
algorithm is getting it right more than
85% it's not learning anything and so
it's kind of wasting everybody's time
because you're not training it to be any
better than it already is
and if it's getting less than
85% correct it's creating too much error
and confusion so it's counterproductive
so actually shooting for that 85% hit
rate is the optimal learning strategy
and generally people are more engaged
they're more interested they feel more
alive when they're appropriately
challenged when they're still that 15%
that they haven't yet mastered but
because they have 85 they feel confident
enough that they can meet that
challenge but if you're living life
correctly it's not that life ever gets
easy it's just that we get bigger and
bigger bosses and harder and harder
temples and more and more
inaccessible
items
which fortunately thankfully provide us
for the
continued pretext for adventure and
growth because otherwise it's just
stagnation and
decline we want to be comfortable but
then we want to be challenged generally
when people want things to be
comfortable it's because things are hard
for them in that moment it's like I talk
to a lot of folks and sometimes they'll
say ory if I could just run away from
everything and live on a beach and just
drink out of a coconut my life would be
okay I don't think that's true I think
that they could do that maybe for a few
days maybe a week at most and then
they're going to get bored but they're
speaking out of their own exhaust in the
moment so sometimes I tell people that
you need to rest before you quit maybe
your fantasy about running away or
leaving it all behind is really just a
function of the fact that you're tired
right now and when you rest you'll have
a much different relationship to
whatever you're dealing with in your
life this is a quote from Winston Church
Hill I love that guy you have enemies
good that means you've stood up for
something sometime in your life mhm m
mhm oh yeah a person who has no
enemies has
not stood for anything of interest to
anyone people sometimes
think
that only bad people have enemies that's
not true like some of the best
unfortunately some of the best people
throughout history that I'm aware of not
only had enies but they
were killed by their enemies I
mean and I don't think that they
attracted those enemies because their
views were
incorrect
so I don't think we should seek out
having enemies I I think it might be a
good practice to not have any enemies
yourself but to be comfortable being
other people's enemy does that make
sense I don't want to be
the I don't want to see any human being
as my enemy but if other people choose
to see me as their enemy that's their
choice Franklin
Roosevelt courage is not the absence of
fear it's the assessment that something
else is more important than
fear yeah he also said the only thing we
have to fear is fear itself right which
basically means that courage is just
fear of a different sort potentially
courage is the fear of being a
coward courage is the fear of letting
someone else down courage is the fear of
a greater pain than you might experience
by sticking your neck
out it's like you can use your fear to
defeat your fear you just have to be
afraid of the right things the stoics
talked about this a lot they talk about
it's
beneath human dignity to be afraid of
things they shouldn't be afraid of and
it
is a unique human failing to not be
afraid of things that they should be
that most people are basically not
afraid of the right things when you use
fear appropriately when you're not
afraid of things that you shouldn't be
afraid of and when you are afraid of
things that you
should then you have this sort of like
dignity and
courage to navigate through life with
equinity one more Jim rone quote sure
there are two types of pain you will go
through in life the pain of discipline
and the pain of regret discipline weighs
ounces while regret weighs
tons well it's it's definitely pain
either way like there is no pain-free
path pain is an
essential irrevocable
component of lived experience the only
way to not feel pain is to not be
alive so to my mind what that means
is it's a better idea not to make
determinations about which path in life
might be less painful because they might
be equally painful albe it in different
ways but to choose the path that takes
you where you want to go and if you
choose the path that takes you where you
want to go it might redeem the pain that
was required to experience in order to
get
there I think
that discipline is a form of pain it's
a it's a emotional
tantrum that discipline has to come in
contact with discipline comes in contact
with the parts of us that are still lazy
that are still selfish that are still
Comfort oriented
that are
still
deceitful that are
still
spiteful and when discipline says you
can't do those things anymore there is
this
little emotional tantrum that tends to
erupt inside of people's minds and
hearts and I think tantrum is the
appropriate word because I think it's
related Rel ated to the unbounded
emotional narcissism of the
child children are all inherently
narcissistic and they're hopefully
disabused of that narcissism by
appropriate parenting as they get
older but all of us arrive to adulthood
without having been told no to some
extent in some important way in our
lives and it might fall to us to say no
to ourselves because who's going to do
it now who's going to say no to you now
like you won't even listen to your
parents as an adult most
likely so it's certainly not going to be
the postman or your neighbor or your
wife it's like you have to do it to
yourself you have to practice
self-abnegation in the service of
becoming I guess more mature but that
sounds so weak like it doesn't sound
like a very juicy reward for having gone
through all of that emotional
pain discipline has the same rote as
disciple I think it's the same word just
pronounced differently right and a
disciple is somebody who voluntarily
submits to an order usually a religious
order because he or she believes that
that surrender is the best possible way
of
attaining a higher expression of being
and so it's a sacrifice of the Lesser in
a calculated risk to get what might be
the
greater but that's difficult man that's
tough but that's actually the Alchemy of
spiritual
transformation people took the
alchemical texts to literally the
transmutation of lead into gold that's
all symbolism it's all a metaphor for
personal spiritual transformation we all
start as lead more or less just dull
material but eventually through certain
processes of heat which is like adding
intensity breaking things down that's
actually what happens when you melt
something right is that the energy
dissipates the bonds between the
molecules and they start to shift which
is a
liquid that breaking down
is necessary to reconstitute the
molecules in a different structure to
build something back up sometimes it's
not possible to build without
breaking that's why sometimes breakdowns
can become breakthroughs and you never
really know what's going to happen to
people while they're still above ground
you
know
so the whole
alchemical metaphor is about the
spiritual transformation to become gold
which
is you know the attribute of the sun
which is Divinity which is light which
is beauty which is
effulgence and that's something that at
least
theoretically is a pathway that's open
to all human beings but it's very
difficult to
understand you might ask well Orion why
didn't they make it easier to understand
like maybe more people would take that
path if it was easier for people to know
what the to do but it's very
difficult to know what the to do
when you're working with symbols and
metaphors Etc the reason why is
because you want to these wise people
and I do think they were wise we're
trying to speak in such a way that
across time and across culture as many
different people can approach an
understanding of these truths as
possible which
probably means it can't follow a
specific script a specific script will
never work all of the time imagine a
military manual that just said oh always
attack from the right like how easy
would it be to defend and respond to
that tactic right that would be a
terrible suggestion so in war you can't
you can have General precepts but you
can't ever say this is how you win a
battle because as soon as you say that
it's no longer the way to win the battle
do you understand and so you do have to
speak in general terms and have that
fall to people's individual
intelligences to interpret and apply
them to their specific
circumstances it it is helpful to have
interpreters though like the ich Ching
is great and all but I would be lost
without
like Carl Young's interpretations of it
it's just too
esoteric and culturally Bound for my
modern Western mentality so I do need
young who is able to kind of bridge the
East and the West to help me make more
sense of some of those um those
beliefs it's interesting how many things
happen in our lives that at first appear
to be the worst thing that we can
imagine and yet turn out to be one of
the best things that have ever
happened well yeah I mean one of the
things that and vice versa that's also
true that's also true be well why is
that because most people don't use the
words good and bad in any kind of
consistent way like in the sense of
having that relate to a objective moral
or ethical framework they don't when
people say good it's associated with
things they like and and getting what
they want and when they say that
something is bad it's something they
don't like and it's associated with not
getting what they want or getting what
they don't want right so most people's
use of those of that Mor moral language
is actually based in their own
egocentrism and self-relevant goals
okay
so because of
that
people don't
always how do we put this it's like
getting what you want isn't always
getting what you need kind of a thing
and if we're too focused on getting what
we want we might be blind to how a given
opportunity might actually serve Us in
the long run personally one of my most
precious experiences in life it's going
to sound very strange but it's my
personal
bottom which I think about several times
a week probably not every day but
several times a week and just like folks
who go through recovery
programs it's like the memory of that
moment when life had become unbearable
like I reached the point where I
literally could not I didn't think I
could keep
living
and it's
that it's that moment the the like the
intensity of the
pain that has kind of kept me on the
straight and narrow and served as an
inflection point for for the beginning
of everything improving in my life like
fortunately it it never got worse than
that I guess if it did it would that
would be the bottom right bottom is
where you stop
digging and thank God for that like if
it hadn't gotten that bad my life would
be much worse today because it probably
would have been more tolerable and on
some level nothing is
more nothing is
more
instable on unstable nothing is more
unstable as
misery a miserable person is either
going to succumb or do whatever is
necessary to get out of the misery and
sometimes we have to arrive at the point
of being willing to do whatever is
necessary to escape our misery only then
does the story of our life begin in
Earnest until then it's just
Prelude so sometimes the pain and the
suffering that people are subject to
experiencing it's motivating them on a
long enough time
scale
to enter into the narrative their
lives
[Music]
fully I guess that's what I'll say to
that this is probably my favorite quote
from Thomas fredman the political
commentator pessimists are you usually
right and optimists are usually wrong
but all the great changes have been
accomplished by
optimists so I think this speaks to the
importance of Hope optimists have a
vision for the future they believe that
things could be better than they are and
it's that hope that
motivates the effort and the pain and
the struggle of attempting to realize
that in reality so I think there's some
truth to that people need hope and
generally people need hope more than
they
realize the thing about the being right
I the first part of that quote I'd like
to respond to because it also speaks to
this this
common understanding that is supported
by some of the research that smarter
people are more
unhappy part of this is due to the
phenomenon of as no a no agnosia which
is is a lack of knowledge about one's
own lack of knowledge it's like dumb
people don't know that they're dumb and
so they don't understand their own
limitations and so might not be bound in
some of the ways that people who are
more intelligent or self-aware might be
and so I do think there's this Trope of
people who think deeply they tend to be
more Melancholy or depressed or
pessimistic because they're seeing
reality more accurately there is some
truth to that but I don't think that's
the whole truth I
think that
if you're smart and you're still unhappy
you're not that
smart like the primary the principal
function of your intelligence should be
how to exist as a contented being in
reality if you haven't figured out how
to do that yet your intelligence is not
that high as you think it is or it's
being applied to the wrong
problems the fun fundamental problem
that intelligence is supposed to solve
is how can I be a good and happy
person it's like a little knowledge is a
dangerous thing right so sometimes if
you're going to go down that path you
have to keep going like knowing a little
bit might make you pessimistic might
make you depressed might make you
hopeless don't
stop you just have to keep learning and
the more your intelligent grows and the
more you're able to apply that
successfully to the problem of living
the happier more joyful and more
contented and peaceful you'll
become like the the smartest people are
not pessimistic the smartest people are
not depressed or hopeless because they
found a way to solve the problems of
their life with their
intelligence and really what the
would be the point of being smart if you
couldn't do
that this is a quote from Michael Hoff
author who uh I've heard Joe Rogan
mentioned this quote several times on
his
podcast Hard Times create strong
men strong men create good times good
times create weak men and weak men
create Hard Times makes sense to me I
mean very pithy
too I think one way to approach this
is that we as a species
might be lazier might be more prone to
selfishness might be more subject to the
stultifying effects of comfort than we
might realize a lot of this has to do
with the fact that those things
generally weren't very available to the
vast majority of individuals throughout
history and so we would take them when
we could it's sort of like why we have
an obesity epidemic is because it was
rare throughout most of human
evolutionary history to encounter foods
that were rich in fats
calories and so there's this tendency to
say okay well I'll eat it now because
who knows when the getting is going to
get this good again and so there are
these deep physiological and
psychological mechanisms that predispose
people to certain kinds of foods and
that's you know it's more complicated
than that but that is the
vulnerability that leaves people
susceptible to all kinds of problematic
eating behaviors right so I think that
we as a human species like to
lays we like to feel pleasure we like to
not work
hard because most of our Lives
throughout human evolutionary history
has been effortful and full of toil and
full of struggle and full of pain and so
maybe this is comparable it's like who
knows when the beginning is going to get
this good why not just lays about
but it's interesting
because what this suggests is that
potentially humans are about as good as
they need to
be and some of the Romanticism about
previous generations who let's not take
anything away from them did wonderful
and amazing and courageous things at
times but they also did so under the
impulsive
necessity like even depressed people
will escape a burning building
even suicidally
bedridden psychotically depressed people
will get up and walk out maybe they
haven't got out of bed in months do you
see and what motivated them
necessity necessity is a
hard master and we might need it in more
ways than we appreciate but this is
there's another dimension to this quote
that's also interesting which is well
are people doing well
now like we can certainly make the
argument that people on the whole are
not thriving they are sick both mentally
and physically they are struggling
financially they are struggling
existentially with purpose and meaning
relationships of all kinds are
fragmenting like if this isn't a hard
time then what is a hard time like it
has to be a war it has to be a famine
maybe it does maybe it does have to be
that hard of a necessity but
clearly it's not good times for a lot of
people right now so where are the strong
men I think there's two ways to approach
this one is that they're coming back
like I do think that there is a turning
of a tide that I've
sensed very recently like I'm I'm even
cautious about saying that but I do
think that there is some waking up with
respect to this and it's beginning to
propagate throughout the general
population okay so I do think that we
will see more strong men in the coming
days I believe that but the second thing
is well
maybe
folks there's there's there's a trap
there are traps that exist today that
ens snare people that didn't exist even
a generation
ago and why do hard times create strong
men because the hardness of those times
creat creates pain which motivates
people to do what is necessary to escape
that pain which generally means becoming
stronger more resilient more competent
more bold like it's it's to escape
pain but what we have now are a number
of different ways to anesthetize
pain people can anesthetize pain today
in ways that are would just be science
fiction even 20 years ago people can
anesthetize themselves with
copious amounts of
lowcost high fat satisfying Foods they
can anesthetize themselves with
OnDemand sexual variety on the
internet they can satiate themselves
with one of dozens of streaming Services
offering hundreds of emotionally
compelling series and dramas they can
anesthetize themselves
even from their own experiences by Doom
scrolling where they're so alienated
from their own lived experience because
they're just worrying about the climate
or about the Middle East and that's what
occupies their Consciousness to almost
block out the pain and the discomfort
they may be experiencing in their own
subjective experience
right and on and on and on so the reason
why we might not be seeing as many
strong men coming out of these
objectively hard times times is because
of these anesthetizing
snares that exist and have succeeded in
entrapping millions and millions of
people if they were somehow disabused of
those strategies and came into more
immediate emotional contact with the
pain of their lived experience we would
see a lot more strong
men arise and strong women too I don't
think it's simply the virtue of men to
be
strong but you have to come in contact
with the pain which nobody wants pain is
the gift that nobody
wants but it's the necessity of reality
to change and to grow and to
evolve it's like people who for whatever
reason have like a congenital defect
which prevents them from experiencing
pain subjectively have a real rough time
Mark have you have you heard about these
people they can chew off their own
tongue they can put their hand on a
stove and not realize it and have third
degree burns all over their hand they'll
never be able to use that hand again
like they're covered in bruises and
lacerations that's a life without
anesthetizing principles very prudently
and cautiously obviously it's very very
good that anesthesia exists like I had a
I had a colleague who grew up in Ukraine
who told me that he got his wisdom teeth
out at 15 without anesthesia can you
believe un anesthetized oral surgery on
an adolescent like wow amazing they're
breaking bones and pulling teeth
out so I'm glad that anesthesia exists
like it allows us to do things that
would be extremely excruciating or
difficult to do otherwise but it is
absolutely over
applied partly this also has to do with
the fact that people don't know what
else to
do there will create it will create this
vacuum for a while like if you were to
take away people's smartphones and
pornography and the streaming services
and alcohol and weed and all the
different substances that people use to
escape their own subjective experience
if only
temporarily well what would they do
instead like you'd have to actively
create a space for nothing comparable to
come in for quite some
time and why is this so difficult
because
people don't live in communities
anymore they don't exist among extended
K
networks they have more fractur
relationships people have fewer
relationships than they have ever I
think throughout human
history I think there's a a a a
significant number of Americans who
don't have a single friend a single
friend a
lot like how awful would that be so many
people I've interviewed I asked them if
they have any friends and they say
no that that could that's heartbreaking
you
know because a friend is sort of like
the ultimate good if you have one friend
to go back to the Conformity studies
that we were talking about earlier what
these researchers found is that even
with three or four
Confederates it was very difficult for
people to persist in their
own perception of
reality but when the researchers
introduced one Confederate who agreed
with the participant it was so much
easier like a person can stand up
against a lot of people if they have one
person
who believes in
them but if they don't have that one
person they might not be able to stand
up against one
person but if you have that one person
you might be able to stand up against a
million
so the force multiplier of friendship is
enormous and what's the point of having
all the other Goods in life riches and
Comforts and excitement and meaning if
you can't share them with other people
like how lonely would that be I guess
that's sort of the moral of the Midas
smth right is he had all of the wealth
he had the mightest touch he turned
everything into gold but because of that
you know he turned his wife into gold he
turned his food into gold so he didn't
because of his heedless pursuit of
riches he cut off the potential of
sharing it with anybody else and
actually nurturing and sustaining him on
a deeper
level but that's a problem that's like a
champagne problem as they call it you
know what I'm saying that's not the
problem that affects most people what
affects most people is not
having a friend or to have increasingly
tenuous friendships like how many people
in the last four years have had a friend
cut them off or a family member turned
their back on them or an employer let
them go because of some of their beliefs
during
recent
events it's
like people have fewer relationships and
those relationships seem more tenuous
than they have ever
been it's a a very difficult time I
guess the opportunity here is for people
to cultivate greater
selfreliance and
resilience and that is potentially the
silver lining
and whether people do I think depends on
whether they allow their pain to
appropriately motivate them or they
escape from their pain in one of the
many freely and easily available
anesthesia that our culture provides it
seems like everything in our lives the
place we live the job we have the career
we choose the friends we have the
Romantic relationships there's always a
good aspect and a bad aspect to
everything there's always a trade-off
and it seems like technology from for
all the great things it brings all the
convenience all the all the wonderful
things technology brings we rarely speak
about the negative effects of Technology
it's almost like there's a 50-50
trade-off it seems there's a price you
pay and a benefit you reap it's not
always 50-50 but you're right there is
always a benefit and there's always a
liability yeah yeah it's not 50/50 but
but there's always a
trade-off and with technology look at
all the great things it's brought the
library is now in the palm of your hand
like everything is so much easier but no
one ever talks about the price we're
paying for that and I think the biggest
hit has been courage especially with men
look at how strong and tough people were
2,000 years ago just look at what the
settlers coming from Europe to America
had to overcome just traveling across
the United States we have to find a way
or make way I mean that's a quote from
Hannibal and and now people don't they
complain about getting on an airplane
because it's a hassle yeah I mean it's
it looks like a very different world I I
can't imagine what we seem very soft I
think we are very
soft and that's also an opportunity it
has never been easier in the history of
the world to be hard yeah it has never
been easier in the history of the world
to be
courageous now one of the things I was
going to that you spoke oh yeah the
library on your phone this is really
interesting because yeah you have the
entire more or
less history of human knowledge at your
fingertips
the the amassed collected works of all
our greatest thinkers and artists
available on your phone every book right
here but who
reads
maybe the fact that it's here at my
fingertips that can be accessed at any
time means that I don't really have to
do that right
now
the Greek in Greek mythology the gods
envied
man and they envied man because he was
Mortal which is kind of a strange
thought right and why did the gods Envy
man his mortality because his limited
amount of time forced him to make
choices that became meaningful in the
context of that limitation
the gods had no meaning to their lives
because they could do anything at any
time eternally and so there was also no
need to do anything at any time
eternally because of the shortness of
Our Lives we kind of have
to make hay while the sun is shining you
know we have to take action we're the
get done species as it were and
it's that awareness of mortality that
can be a gift that's what it is in the
tolken universe as well when ero alvatar
the great god in token's mythology
creates man and gives him mortality
because he is his favorite creation it's
the same basic principle it motivates
action and because we can do some things
and not others those things that we do
like intrinsically assume meaning if we
could do anything at any time nothing is
Meaningful and there's no necessity for
Action so people don't
act so having
things
convenient is often at Cross purposes to
having things
done sometimes things have to be a
little inconvenient and a little
difficult to like I was saying with the
video game if it's if it's too little of
a challenge people don't want to play
it's not fun I I do that later there so
many better things I could be doing with
my
time so we get rid of some of those
obstructions I think to our own
detriment but we're all still learning
like the pace of technology is
insane and no one's ever had to figure
out these issues before we're we're
figuring out collectively in real time
maybe we're doing a decent job of it
like and I think that we'll get better
at it with
time I mean no one really worries
about typewriter ribbon jams anymore you
know what I'm saying true fun fact about
typewriters yeah do you know where the
querty arrangement comes from no don't
you did you ever think about like how
they decided why the letters went there
this this totally speaks to what we're
talking about um the first
typewriters actually had the most
commonly used English letters on the
home row where your fingers rest in
touch typing they made the most commonly
used letters more convenient
for typists
fingers it's a rational decision right
but what the manufacturers found is
because those letters were so convenient
they kept creating jams in the
typewriter you actually we want to
create some space between each
subsequent type hit or else they get
jammed and it's much less efficient in
the long run so they created the Cy
arrangement to make certain letters more
inconvenient for typists so that they
could actually get more writing
done and our keyboards are a vestage of
those
typewriters obviously it's not necessary
to have the letters in that Arrangement
anymore for that reason
but people are already trained yeah on
this topic there's one thing I've always
told myself for decades is that hard
work is my
friend it's what helps me get ahead of
everyone else around me
but then my dad told me a dozen years
ago that any jackass can work
hard they can you ready for the next one
sure this is from the Indian philosopher
and writer renden
tagore oh I've read some of his work
before I slept and dreamt that life was
Joy I awoke and saw that life was
service I acted and behold service was
Jo
Joy so there's a good
book called The Razor's Edge by W
Somerset Mom do you know that book do
you know the classic movie with Tyrone
Power that it's based on I read it and I
pretty good yeah the book is fantastic
mom is one of my favorite authors
because he writes dialogue so well man
that guy understood nuances of
personality and human
interaction and in that story the main
character travels to India to try to
make sense of his life and he meets a
guru there and the guru tells him that
there are in his tradition three paths
to Enlightenment there's the path of
prayer there's the path of service and
there's The Path of
Knowledge he says The Path of Knowledge
is the most difficult of those three
paths to attain to Enlightenment but he
says it's one of those three paths but
he also says
that eventually as you walk those paths
and arrive and approach closer to
Enlightenment you realize the three
paths are really
one that when you understand who you are
and how you are related to every other
person an aspect of created
reality how can you not devote more of
your time to the service of that
understanding and how is that
opportunity not associated with
gratitude which is a form of
devotion for the opportunity to be alive
in my comprehension that's how those
three things come to alignment with each
other when you actually understand
reality more
clearly it's not even correct that
you're serving other people like that's
more of a perception of ego
construction you understand that the
boundaries between self and other or
inside and outside
are really fluid and actually
arbitrarily constructed and
enforced and that
knowledge like no one needs to be taught
on some level to take care of themselves
on on a very basic level yeah we need to
be taught how to present ourselves in a
specific culture but like humans are
born with inborn Tendencies for
self-preservation
right but when you expand the conception
of self then your
behavior begins to look more and more
like service to others but it's really
not it's it's it service to a a higher
more expansive conceptualization of
self last one
sure this is Muhammad
Ali impossible is just a big word thrown
around by small men who find it easier
to live in a world where they've been
given rather than to explore the power
they have to change it impossible is not
a fact it's an
opinion yeah practically speaking he's
probably correct he's not correct in a
very technical sense when we get down to
like axiomatic logic or something like
that he's a
boxer he was a smart guy though very
smart um he was smart in a lot of
different ways um people don't people
don't know what impossible is people
don't know what possible is you'd have
to already have omniscience to know that
with certainty and I sure don't have
that and I don't think anybody else I
know does I examine their behavior
choices as they move through life so um
saying that something is possible or
impossible assumes a position of
omniscience which is arrogant and
um there was something else I was going
to say to this it almost comes back to
the
optimism thing that we talked about
earlier especially coming from an
athlete I think you have to be able to
we have this phrase in English
I I'll believe it when I see it as if
like belief is rationally related to
empirical
evidence
which is run counter to everything we
know about human
beings it's more true to say that you
have to believe it to see it on some
level certain mental constructs have to
exist in your mind to be able to
perceive certain things as objects in
reality until those Concepts or those
structures exist in your mind you don't
see them like you see them with your
eyes you see them with you sense them
but you don't perceive them with your
mind because there's a difference
between sensing and per
perceiving and perception is always
mediated by
psychology
so you need to be able to believe it in
order to see it
otherwise I mean I I don't know it just
it just doesn't work the other way
around I just know from my personality I
live to achieve the impossible it
motivates me it inspires me it makes me
come alive do you think that it's
therefore impossible no I think it's
possible I just think it's very unlikely
ah I see pessimists call it impossible
but I know that anything is
possible
I don't know if anything is possible
maybe it is maybe it is I don't mean
anything I'm sure you get you're not
going to defy gravity
but well I mean how do I another way to
approach this is sort of
like what is a miracle a miracle I guess
same kind of thing is in a in the
popular understanding it's something
that that shouldn't be able to occur
it's like against the laws of nature
it's physically impossible and yet it is
and there's examples of miracles in the
lives of saints and in different
religious texts
Etc it's a miracle that Jesus walked on
water it's a miracle that he multiplied
the loaves
Etc but to my
mind like that is a very narrow
conceptualization of what a miracle
is when you say that the multiplication
of the loaves is a miracle you say it
because well
that shouldn't have been like
that based on my understanding of
reality that cannot have
happened but like what understanding of
reality insists that any of this should
have
happened
that light should have all the colors in
it and then be fractured by a prism like
why isn't that a miracle
like why do you believe that it should
just be that way you know what I'm
saying why do we not believe that it's a
miracle that gravity attracts towards
the center of its mass like we just oh
that's just how it's supposed to be like
says who like what's your basis of
comparison and if your basis of
comparison is
nothingness like attaining to
some conceptualization if it's possible
of reality that is not only empty but
full of the PO potential of ever being
full of anything then everything is
miraculous because in comparison with
that standard nothing should be like
there's no rational basis for anything
even the most ordinary aspect of our
existence is miraculous so people who
just think that walking on water it's
like well
is miraculous as missing the point it's
like why don't we consider
that it's a miracle that ice
floats like most things when they become
solid
sink and the fact that ice
floats actually is probably related to
the Persistence of Life on this planet
more than most people understand because
we think that life came out of the the
ocean and if the oce cooled and ice sink
it would sink to the bottom which would
freeze another layer of water which
would sink to the bottom and ultimately
the Seas would just potentially be one
mass of ice and no life could
potentially thrive in that according to
our concept conceptual conventional
understanding anyway the point is is
that every aspect of reality that we
take for granted is miraculous when
viewed in the context of
nothingness which might be an
appropriate standard of comparison
as opposed to our narrow conceptual view
conventional view of
reality that was a little far out but
hopefully okay life is pretty miraculous
it is it's it's
completely
incomprehensible like no one will ever
be able to understand life and that
might not be the
point it's pretty fun to be alive I
think it beats the
alternative it does all right Orion
thank you thank you so much thanks Mark
this is a fun