around our teenage years some of us may
grapple with the question over what
exactly is the meaning of life such
questioning may lead to very depressing
results namely that life appears devoid
of
meaning Others May find the answer in a
loved one a vision or simply May abandon
the question altogether leaving it up to
bigwig philosophers to rip their hair
out in search of any meaning whatsoever
in the 1930s Victor Frankle a young
psychiatrist preoccupied with the issue
founded a youth counseling program in
Vienna his mission was to motivate his
suicidal and depressed patients to find
meaning in their lives unlike his
psychological predecessors Freud and
Adler who believed that our motives and
behavior were based upon a search for
pleasure or power Frankle interpreted
our psychology as a system in search of
meaning and value with the war nearing
and his position as the head of
Neurology in a Jewish hospital in
Jeopardy the US Embassy notified Frankle
that he was eligible for an American
Visa however despite this Frankle stayed
in Vienna to take care of his aging
parents and allowed for his visa to
lapse shortly before 1942 Frankle began
formulated an argument suggesting that
an individual's mental health and
well-being was based entirely on our
quest for meaning then in September
Frankle and his family were arrested
separated and within 3 years Frankle
would relocate to four different
concentration camps including oswit and
Dao this interesting and Dreadful
situation in which a highly talented and
compassionate psychologist found himself
subjected to the greatest and largest
degradation of human life in modern
history could have ended far worse
instead Frankl survived his imprisonment
founded a new School of Psychology and
published one of the greatest books of
the 20th century Man's Search for
meaning in what appeared to be a
hopeless situation characterized by
meaningless suffering became a rebirth
for Frankle he used his perceptive and
highly trained skills to do document as
best he could his and others reactions
to being placed in a death camp within
the camp he witnessed the worst and best
of humankind we have come to know man as
he really is after all man is that being
who invented the gas chambers of oswit
however he is also that being who
entered those gas Chambers upright with
the Lord's Prayer on his lips Frankle
distinguishes three psychological phases
one experiences in a death camp the
period following his admission the
period in which they have become
entrenched in the camp routine and
finally release in Liberation in the
first period he observed that many
including himself experienced a delusion
of reprieve in which one believes that
they will spontaneously be saved at
first this seemed strange the chance of
being saved in those camps was nil
however as he quotes Lessing an abnormal
reaction to an abnormal situation is
normal behavior plainly put the death
camps were far from a normal situation
secondly the prisoners sank into apathy
which Frankle calls emotional death this
was a necessary mechanism of
self-defense according to him where the
only goal was preserving your life as
well as your friends furthermore the
undernourishment of the prisoners led to
a certain regression in their desires
those who had once dreamt of luxury cars
and romance now groaned in the middle of
the night dreaming of that extra loaf of
bread death was tomorrow's reality and
suffering was today's
one this video is sponsored by
skillshare as we navigate the sprawling
digital landscape it's easy to get lost
in the noise and Chaos sometimes even
overwhelmed by the darker corners of the
internet but in the midst of all this
I've always sought opportunities for
personal growth creativity and deeper
connection I'm grateful to today's video
sponsor skillshare for providing a space
for Conscious Creation and mindful
exploration on skillshare you can dive
into a wide range of classes from the
fun and light-hearted humor writing
write funny for the internet to the more
introspective and impactful creative
essay writing or even be guided by skill
shares unique learning paths curated
sequential collections of classes
designed to help you master specific
skills these learning paths Have Been
instrumental in helping me deepen my
expertise in areas like creative writing
critical thinking and and personal
development it's the perfect place to
refine your thoughts contribute
meaningfully to the collective narrative
and build your own unique story
skillshare offers thousands of courses
taught by industry experts across areas
like design film and freelancing whether
you want to advance your career explore
a new passion or enhance your personal
skills skillshare has something for
everyone what's more skillshare's learn
by doing approach allows you to create
and share projects getting valuable
feedback from a community of like-minded
Learners by expanding your skills you
can shape your voice within the larger
digital ecosystem join skillshare today
and start your creative Journey the
first 500 people to sign up using my
link get one month of premium for free
giving you access to thousands of
courses that will help you grow learn
and create in a way that
matters one early morning stumbling in
the darkness amidst the shouting of
guards and icy wind a man next to
Frankle joked if our wives could only
see us now for Frankle this thought
invigorated him occasionally I looked at
the sky where the stars were fading and
the pink Lights of the morning was
beginning to spread behind a dark Bank
of clouds but my mind clung to my wife's
image imagining it with uncanny
acuteness I understood now how a man who
has nothing left in this world still may
know Bliss be it only for a brief moment
in the contemplation of his beloved
Frankle would continue private mental
conversations with his wife throughout
his days of Labor and soon he found that
this intensification of inner life
allowed for both escape and hope Frankle
was able to disassociate and see
suffering for what it truly was a man's
suffering is similar to the behavior of
gas if a certain quantity of gas is
pumped into an empty chamber it will
fill the chamber completely and evenly
no matter how big the chamber thus
suffering completely fills the human
soul no matter whether the suffering is
great or little therefore the size of
human suffering is absolutely relative
in this sense Frankle embraced his
experience in the camp not as a tragic
and hopeless journey to nowhere but
instead as an extreme test to our human
will against everpresent
suffering it is this test where Frankle
makes his greatest point in this Camp he
could no longer see man as merely a
product of his surroundings
the experiences of Camp life show that
man does have a choice of action in
spite of one's sociological or
biological conditions Franco believes
that all of us are free within one
specific and highly important domain our
ability to choose our attitude in any
given set of circumstances to choose
one's
way he argues that it is this Freedom
alone that Gives Life Meaning the other
two ways of arriving to one's own
existential meaning are found either
through through an active life in which
one realizes their value in Creative
work or in a passive life in which one
finds meaning through another person or
thing in suffering however we are given
the greatest challenge attempting to
find meaning and value within the most
horrendous condition one can experience
emotion which is suffering seizes to be
suffering as soon as we form a clear and
precise picture of it writes Spinosa
finding such meaning within suffering
was only achievable when we stopped
asking about the meaning of life and
started identifying exactly what life
expected from us we needed to stop
asking about the meaning of life and
instead to think of ourselves as those
who were being questioned by life daily
and hourly our answer must consist not
in talk and meditation but in right
action and right conduct life ultimately
means taking responsibility to find the
right answer to its problems and to
fulfill the tasks which it constantly
set for each
individual this practice of answering
life's challenges with a fulfilling
responsibleness was fully established in
frankl's School of Psychology that he
would later develop after Liberation
logotherapy asserts that man search for
meaning is the primary motivation in his
life and that this meaning is unique and
specific and that it must and can be
fulfilled by him alone only then does it
achieve a significance which will
satisfy his own will to meaning Frankle
aptly identifi I the emergence of
existential frustration in his
generation naming it an existential
vacuum his description of modern man is
just as relevant today no instinct tells
him what he has to do and no tradition
tells him what he ought to do sometimes
he does not even know what he wishes to
do instead he either wishes to do what
other people do conformism or he does
what other people wish him to do
totalitarianism perhaps our ancestors
that had gods and monarchs to make
choices for them never felt that Sunday
Neurosis when the rush of a busy week
has subsided and the void within oursel
becomes manifest boredom and the anxiety
of choice are perhaps the greatest
targets of frankl's logo
therapy how then can we eliminate the
existential void how can we eliminate
that strange moment at 10:43 a.m. on a
Saturday where you're lying in your bed
staring at the ceiling Paralyzed by a
sense of absolute dread and self-de
unable to determine what you should do
that day and then asking yourself why
you should even do anything at all with
your dead and divorce looming and now
your neighbor has started mowing his
lawn and you want to drive a spike into
his chest but you then realize that he
too is just another pitiful and weak
Creature cast under this Earth without
his
consent what is the meaning of all this
what is the meaning of life maybe you
should see a therapist if you ask a logo
therapist they probably won't prescribe
you pills or ask if you think that your
mom is a a 10 Frankle sees logotherapy
as playing the role of an eye specialist
rather than a painter a painter creates
for us a picture of the world as he
would like interpreted an eye specialist
helps us see the world as it is the
logotherapy and Theory would help their
patients see the entire spectrum of
meaning as an eye specialist would help
their patients see all spectrums of
color and if you saw logo therapist and
ask them about the meaning of life as
Frankle explains they may tell you this
for the meaning of life differs from man
to man from day to day and from hour to
hour what matters therefore is not the
meaning of life in general but rather
the specific meaning of a person's life
at a given moment to put the question in
general terms would be comparable to the
question posed to a chess champion tell
me master what is the best move in the
world in asking what the meaning of life
is we should be aware of who exactly is
posing such a question in the first
place
us now the tables have turned life
questions us and we can only respond for
our own lives it is you and only you
that is responsible for your life
Frankle asserts that responsibleness is
the very essence of existence he asks us
to in each moment live as if you were
living already for the second time and
as if you had acted the first time as
wrongly as you are about to act now in
doing so we see the very moment passing
as something something already
solidified in the past and
simultaneously understand that this past
can be shaped and changed but first we
must assume responsibility for it
according to logotherapy we can discover
this meaning in life in three different
ways by creating a work or doing a deed
by experiencing something or
encountering someone and by the attitude
we take toward unavoidable suffering
this last point an argument that Frankle
established in the death camps as he
endured some of the most extreme forms
of suffering conceivable makes us
realize that even if we cannot change
the situation at hand we must take upon
the challenge to change ourselves
however aren't our attitudes somewhat
predetermined and yet Frankle argues
that man is not fully conditioned and
determined but rather determines himself
whether he gives into conditions or
stands up to them in other words man is
ultimately
self-determining in logo therapy trag I
optimism stands Above All Else as an
opponent to what Frankl describes as the
tragic Triad of human existence namely
pain guilt and death optimism in the
face of tragedy that is not denying that
the circumstances themselves are tragic
and in view of human potential uses the
Triad to create
meaning firstly in pain tragic optimism
gives human suffering the status of an
accomplishment secondly tragic optimism
uses guilt to help us better ourselves
and find our potential thirdly with
death tragic optimism allows us to see
the impermanence of our own existence
and through this we recognize that
taking responsibility for our life is
necessary in his experience in the camps
where each day promised absolute
suffering and hopelessness Frankle
exemplified this state of tragic
optimism why wouldn't someone just kill
themselves as a young doctor Frankle
dealt with a great number of suicidal
individuals he estimates over 12,000 he
notes that after meeting someone who had
attempted suicide they would be quick to
realize that there was generally a
solution to whatever problem LED them to
such a position an answer to their
question or a meaning to life he would
use this to help other more hopeless
patients even if things only take such a
good turn in one of a thousand cases who
can guarantee that in your case it will
not happen sooner or later but in the
first place you have to live to see the
day on which it may happen so you have
to survive in order to see that day Dawn
and from now on the responsibility for
survival does not leave
you Freud believed that exposing a large
and diverse group to hunger and
deprivation would lead to the group
blurring into one unitary mass that
would only reflect one desire to eat
however Frankle lived through this very
thought experiment and saw something
very different that individual
differences magnify when challenged by
miserable conditions for both the swine
and the Saints he also properly observes
that the Saints more often than not
appear as a minority and yet I see
therein the very challenge to join the
minority for the world is in a bad state
but everything will become still worse
unless each of us does his best so let
us be alert alert in a two-fold sense
since Ash with we know what man is
capable of and since hirosima we know
what is at
stake for Franco the betterment of the
human race starts at the individual
level instead of blaming others we
should ask ourselves if we too would act
more heroically in certain situations we
too should bear the responsibility of
our own lives before labeling our search
for meaning as a lost cause each of us
are called upon not because we are
destined to improve ourselves in the
situation of others but instead because
we carry the potential to do
so what then is man thus we ask the
question
again he is a being that always decides
what it is a being that within at one
and the same time the possibility of
sinking to the level of an animal or of
soaring to a life of near Holiness
instead of using our energy to blame
others victimize ourselves and complain
whether how tragic or insufferable our
conditions are perhaps we should be a
little more quiet in being so demanding
we achieve little instead we should
demand heroism only of a single person
and that is
[Music]